pull_request_template.md, before:

<!--
Thanks for opening a pull request!

Please remember to:
- mention any issue(s) that this PR closes using a closing keyword as well as the issue number, such as "Closes #XYZ" or "Resolves sigstore/repo-name#XYZ", cf.
  [documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/github/managing-your-work-on-github/linking-a-pull-request-to-an-issue#linking-a-pull-request-to-an-issue-using-a-keyword)
- ensure your commits are signed-off, as sigstore uses the [DCO](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Developer_Certificate_of_Origin) using `git commit -s`, or `git commit -s --amend` if you want to amend already existing commits
- lastly, ensure there are no merge commits!

Thank you :)
-->

#### Summary
<!--
A description of what this pull request does
-->

#### Ticket Link
<!--
If this pull request addresses a Help Wanted ticket, please link the relevant GitHub issue, e.g.

  Fixes https://github.com/sigstore/YYYYYY/issues/XXXXX

-->
Fixes

#### Release Note
<!--
Add a release note for each of the following conditions:

* Config changes (additions, deletions, updates)
* API additions—new endpoint, new response fields, or newly accepted request parameters
* Database changes (any)
* Anything noteworthy to an administrator running private sigstore instances (err on the side of over-communicating)
* New features and improvements, including behavioural changes, UI changes and CLI changes
* Bug fixes and fixes of previous known issues
* Deprecation warnings, breaking changes, or compatibility notes

If no release notes are required write NONE. Use past-tense.

-->
```release-note

```

Commit message:

Improve PR template (#5)
Serveral changes are implemented here.

* Request that an issue first be raised
* Ask for more details on how to test
* Remove references to mattermost
* Add documentation section

Signed-off-by: Luke Hinds <luke@redhat.com>

Co-authored-by: Luke Hinds <luke@redhat.com>
Co-authored-by: Mark Bestavros <mbestavr@redhat.com>

pull_request_template.md, after:

<!--
Thanks for opening a pull request! Please do not just delete this text.  The three fields below are mandatory.

Please remember to:
- This PR requires an issue. If it is a new feature, the issue should proceed the PR and will have allowed sufficent time for discussions to take place. Pleases use
issue tags such as "Closes #XYZ" or "Resolves sigstore/repo-name#XYZ".
  [documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/github/managing-your-work-on-github/linking-a-pull-request-to-an-issue#linking-a-pull-request-to-an-issue-using-a-keyword)
- ensure your commits are signed-off, as sigstore uses the [DCO](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Developer_Certificate_of_Origin) using `git commit -s`, or `git commit -s --amend` if you want to amend already existing commits
- lastly, ensure there are no merge commits!

Thank you :)
-->

#### Summary
<!--
 Explain the **motivation** for making this change. What existing problem does the pull request solve? How can reviewers test this PR?
-->

#### Release Note
<!--
Add a release note for each of the following conditions:

* Config changes (additions, deletions, updates)
* API additions—new endpoint, new response fields, or newly accepted request parameters
* Database changes (any)
* Websocket additions or changes
* Anything noteworthy to an administrator running private sigstore instances (err on the side of over-communicating)
* New features and improvements, including behavioural changes, UI changes and CLI changes
* Bug fixes and fixes of previous known issues
* Deprecation warnings, breaking changes, or compatibility notes

If no release notes are required write NONE. Use past-tense.

-->

#### Documentation
<!--

Does this change require an update to documentation? How will users implement your new feature?

Please reference a PR within https://docs.sigstore.dev

-->
